# Introduction-to-Comp-Neuropsychiatry-Comparative-Analysis-of-Congenital-Blindness-and-Schizophrenia


## Abstract
_________________________________________________________
The relationship between visual loss and psychosis is complex: congenital visual loss appears to be protective against the development of a psychotic disorder, particularly schizophrenia. In later life, however, visual deprivation or visual loss can give rise to hallucinosis, disorders of visual insight such as blindsight or Anton syndrome, or in the context of neurodegenerative disorders, more complex psychotic presentations. 

We draw on a computational psychiatric approach to consider the foundational role of vision in the construction of representations of the world and the effects of visual loss at different developmental stages. Using a Bayesian prediction error minimization model, we describe how congenital visual loss may be protective against the development of the kind of computational deficits postulated to underlie schizophrenia, by increasing the precision (and consequent stability) of higher-level (including supramodal) priors, focusing on visual loss-induced changes in NMDA receptor structure and function as a possible mechanistic substrate. In simple terms, we argue that when people cannot see from birth, they rely more heavily on the context they extract from the other senses, and the resulting model of the world is more impervious to the false inferences, made in the face of inevitably noisy perceptual input, that characterize schizophrenia. We show how a Bayesian prediction error minimization framework can also explain the relationship between later visual loss and other psychotic symptoms, as well as the effects of visual deprivation and hallucinogenic drugs, and outline experimentally testable hypotheses generated by this approach

## Introduction: The Complex Relationship Between Visual Loss and Psychosis
_________________________________________________________
*1.1 Motivating Problem.* Research on vision in psychosis has aimed to characterize the mechanisms of hallucinations or elucidate visual deficits. Little research has focused on visual loss and the development of psychosis. The age of onset of visual loss may be crucial. Strikingly, the absence of vision at birth appears to protect against psychosis, whereas later-life visual loss appears to predispose to the development of psychotic symptoms. *There are multiple cases highlighting the risk of new-onset psychotic symptoms in patients with acquired visual impairment. Providers should be aware of this elevated risk and maintain a high index of suspicion for psychotic symptoms in the setting of acquired visual impairment. In this paper, we explore this complex relationship, and the role of vision in constructing models of the world–which become dysfunctional in psychosis. 

Very few other medical disorders that may be protective against psychosis have been identified: rheumatoid arthritis is the most notorious example– moreover on this note, rheumatoid arthritis induces enteric neurodegeneration and jejunal inflammation, and quercetin promotes neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory actions.



 Why might congenital blindness be protective? Demonstrating a negative association between two disorders with low prevalence is a challenge, but if the risk of schizophrenia and congenital blindness were independent, the probability of not finding any cases of co-occurrence in the literature is exceedingly small. Congenital peripheral (as opposed to cortical) blindness have been reported to co-occur with schizophrenia, although these reports do not utilize contemporary diagnostic criteria; furthermore, some reported cases are of early blindness (i.e. earlier than 6 years of age) rather than being truly congenital.The co-occurrence of congenital peripheral blindness with schizophrenia, despite being less commonly reported and potentially confounded by the inclusion of cases of early blindness rather than true congenital blindness, raises intriguing questions about the relationship between these conditions. 

More recently, a population-wide study of nearly half a million people found no occurrences of congenital/early blindness and schizophrenia or broadly defined psychosis, and a lower-than-expected rate in individuals with congenital/early peripheral blindness. On the other hand, lower visual acuity in adolescence is associated with increased psychosis risk. 

The lack of association is particularly surprising given that congenital blindness often results from perinatal infections or trauma, or chromosomal disorders all of which are independently associated with psychosis. Congenital rubella syndrome, for instance, predisposes to both schizophrenia and congenital blindness but there are no documented cases of their co-occurrence.

The relationships between visual loss and the development of psychosis might be explained through the lens of predictive coding, a potentially unifying framework for behavioral and physiological data in both schizophrenia and blindness.

